PWA How-to: trigger installation from a PWA (#26842)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/progressive_web_apps/how_to/trigger_install_prompt/index.md

---
title: Trigger installation from your PWA
slug: Web/Progressive_web_apps/How_to/Trigger_install_prompt
---

{{PWASidebar}}

> **Warning:** The technique described here depends on the {{domxref("Window.beforeinstallprompt_event", "beforeinstallprompt")}} event, which is non-standard and currently only implemented in Chromium-based browsers.

> By default, if the user visits your website, and the browser determines that the site is [installable as a PWA](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Guides/Making_PWAs_installable#installability), then the browser will display some built-in UI — an icon in the URL bar, for example — to install the site. If the user clicks the icon, then the browser shows an install prompt containing the app's [name](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/name) and [icon](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/icons). If the user agrees to install the app, then it will be installed.

Reviewer: "the browser shows an install prompt containing the app's name and icon": it might be good to find a more general way to describe this since browsers are free to implement whatever they want for this, and I know Chrome has been experimenting with showing screenshots in there too.
So I think MDN shouldn't give the impression that it's only name and icon, because it could change tomorrow to include more.

Author: Yeah, I meant "minimally name and icon" but could be clearer here.

Author: I just added "at a minimum" here but would accept some different/better wording.

> However, you can implement your own in-app UI to ask the user if they want to install your app, which will trigger the install prompt. The benefit of this is that you can provide more context about your app, explaining to the user why they might want to install it as a PWA.

Reviewer: Another benefit is that an in-app custom install experience is often easier to discover too. Users don't always see the super small install button in the address bar. It would be good to mention this too here.

## Adding an in-app install UI

First, add some UI to your app indicating that the user can install it. For example:

```html
<button id="install" hidden>Install</button>
```

> We're setting its [`hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/hidden) attribute, because if the user visits the site with a browser that can't install it, we don't want the install UI to be visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're setting the button's [`hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/hidden) attribute, because if the user visits the app with a browser that can't install it, we don't want the install UI to be visible. Next, we'll see how to make then button visible only on browsers that support installing PWAs locally.
```

## Listening for beforeinstallprompt

> As soon as the browser has determined that it can install your site, it fires the {{domxref("Window.beforeinstallprompt_event", "beforeinstallprompt")}} event in the global {{domxref("Window")}} scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as the browser has determined that it can install your app, it fires the {{domxref("Window.beforeinstallprompt_event", "beforeinstallprompt")}} event in the global {{domxref("Window")}} scope.
```

> In our main app code, we will listen for this event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your main app code, we will listen for this event:
```

So far the article has used "you/your" to talk to the user. So it feels a bit out of place to start using "we/our" here.

```js
// main.js

let installPrompt = null;
const installButton = document.querySelector("#install");

window.addEventListener("beforeinstallprompt", (event) => {
  event.preventDefault();
  installPrompt = event;
  installButton.removeAttribute("hidden");
});
```

The event handler here does three things:

- Call {{domxref("Event.preventDefault()","preventDefault()")}} on the event. This prevents the browser from displaying its own install UI.

> - Take a reference to the event object that's passed into the handler. This is an instance of {{domxref("BeforeInstallPromptEvent")}}, and is what will enable us to prompt the user to install our app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Take a reference to the event object that's passed into the handler. This is an instance of {{domxref("BeforeInstallPromptEvent")}}, and is what will enable you to prompt the user to install your app.
```

> - Reveal our in-app install UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reveal our in-app install UI by removing the `install` attribute on the button.
```

Feel free to ignore, but I thought the extra detail added clarity.

## Triggering the install prompt

Next, we need to add a click handler to our in-app install button:

```js
// main.js

installButton.addEventListener("click", async () => {
  if (!installPrompt) {
    return;
  }
  const result = await installPrompt.prompt();
  console.log(`Install prompt was: ${result.outcome}`);

>   disableInAppInstallPrompt();

Reviewer: Should we use the outcome to call this only if its value is `accepted`?

Author: I have kept this, mostly because Chrome just fires `beforeinstallprompt` again anyway once the prompt is dismissed, so it didn't accomplish anything.

});

function disableInAppInstallPrompt() {
  installPrompt = null;
  installButton.setAttribute("hidden", "");
}
```

> The `installPrompt` variable was initialized with the `BeforeInstallPromptEvent` object in our `beforeinstallprompt` event handler. If `installPrompt` hasn't been initialized, for any reason, we do nothing.

Reviewer: The rest of the article uses we/our. I'm fine either way, I just think we should be consistent.

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/26842/commits/dea50ab2e8625ffb4d8cb70bccc3ab5dd3633b66 includes changes to try to make it consistent.

It felt most natural to use "you" at the start, when we are talking about what "you" can do with this, and then "we" once we are talking about the actual code walkthrough.

Otherwise we call its {{domxref("BeforeInstallPromptEvent.prompt()", "prompt()")}} method. This shows the install prompt, and returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} which resolves with an object indicating whether the app was installed or not. In particular, its `outcome` property is `"accepted"` if the user chose to install the app, or `"dismissed"` if they dismissed the prompt.

Either way, we must reset our state after calling `prompt()`, because you can only call it once for each `BeforeInstallPromptEvent` instance. So we reset our `installPrompt` variable and hide the install button again.

## Responding to app install

Depending on the browser and platform, the browser may still offer its own UI to install the app. This means that the app may still be installed without going through our in-app install UI. If this happens, we want to disable the in-app install UI, or we will show it in an app that's already been installed.

To do this we can listen to the {{domxref("Window.appinstalled_event", "appinstalled")}} event, which fires in the global {{domxref("Window")}} scope when the app has been installed:

```js
// main.js

> window.addEventListener("appinstalled", () => {

Reviewer: TIL. I had no idea this existed! That's a great tip to hide the install button.
